---
layout: post
title: We are looking for thesis students!
subtitle: Towards in-home gait monitoring for fall prevention in the elderly
cover-img: /assets/img/lab2.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/collection.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/lab2.jpg
tags: [thesis projects, machine learning, signal processing]
---

<p align="center" style="font-family:Papyrus; font-size:2em;">
Towards in-home gait monitoring for fall prevention in the elderly
</p>
<p align="center" style="font-family:Papyrus; font-size:1em;">
Gait pattern recognition using machine learning
</p>


The past century has seen remarkable improvements in life expectancy with the consequence of an increasing aging population. According to WHO, the absolute number of people aged 60 years and over is expected to increase from 605 million to 2 billion between 2000 and 2050. Of Sweden’s 10 million inhabitants, 20 % have passed the standard retirement age of 65 and this number is projected to rise to 23% by 2040. The ‘normal aging’ process entails alterations in sensory, motor, and cognitive functions that have been linked to poor quality of life, functional decline, and increased risks of falls.

Falls are the leading cause of unintentional injury and hospitalization in people aged 65 years and older, bringing a substantial burden for the healthcare system and social economy. The reported fall cases in USA are 30 million, that is one in four older adults and medical costs for falls are about $50 billion in one year alone. In Sweden, nearly 1000 people in this age group die every year due to fall accident and the societal healthcare cost is more than 10 billion SEK in 2014.

Gait impairments is one of the biggest risk factors for falling. Several studies have identified changes in certain spatial and temporal gait parameters as independent predictors of fall risk, such as increased stride-to-stride variability in stride length, stride speed and double support time as well as increased stride width. Such gait changes are often too discrete to be detected by clinical observation alone and objective quantification of such clinically relevant gait changes is necessary to determine fall risk. Early detection of gait disorders and fall risk with constant gait monitoring allows the timely introduction of individually tailored interventions to address identified risks.

We proposed a radar-based solution for in-home continuous gait assessment to detect gait changes associated with fall risk, enabling early fall prediction and prevention. Radar technology is the most suitable candidate for health monitoring at home due to its safety, simplicity, cheapness, being non-contact and unobtrusive, while preserving privacy.

In a previous project, we have developed a data analysis method for successful extraction of the foot trajectory (figure 1), but it is challenging to extract the complete trajectories of other limb joints (e.g., knee and torso) due to their overlap with each other. In this project, you will use machine learning to learn and recognize features that are associated with different limb joints and the objective is to develop a machine learning based solution for classifications of different limb joints.
