---
layout: post
title: AoA-ICT-SEED-2023 funding granted!
subtitle:
tags: [machine learning]
comments: true
---

## Summary
We are developing a radar-based gait analysis method for continuous and reliable gait assessment in home environment. The long-term goal is to bring this novel technology into future digital healthcare systems, contributing with valuable information for early detection, prediction and eventually prevention of neurodegenerative diseases and fall accident for the elderly.

In this application, we propose an interdisciplinary collaboration where we will explore the use of machine learning for gait analysis. Our preliminary investigation has demonstrated the feasibility of using a millimeter wave radar for accurate tracking of important limb joints. However, it is challenging to extract the gait features of each limb joint due to their partially overlapping in micro-Doppler signature. Within this project, we will investigate the feasibility and potential of machine learning for automatic gait feature extraction through pattern learning and recognition.

## Outcome and dissemination
The direct outcome of this project is a gait feature extraction algorithm based on machine learning. A future joint research project will be formed as part of the project. The results will be reported in articles, conferences and workshops. A wider audience can be reached through the MedTech west research platform, the Moving healthcare home initiative and via Chalmers communication office.

## Sustainable development
The UN sustainable development goal 3: good health and well-being calls for all at all ages, and the inclusion of the elderly in this goal is therefore essential. As people age, the need of health care becomes increasingly complex. In order to enable healthy ageing, the healthcare system needs to be adapted to the need of the aging people. This project aims at developing a novel technology that can be deployed at homes for monitoring the health condition of the elderly. It addresses a substantial need in elderly care and contributes to target 3.8, which is specifically to “achieve universal health coverage”.
